will generative AI be the killer SEO
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast during this great show
and to grab my free guides email tips on
SEO and B2B marketing or to apply to
work with me whenever you're ready visit
samdunning.org so Google are working on
something called sge search generative
experience it's their new generative AI
that essentially for some search queries
are going to flip the search results on
their head so rather than doing the
traditional type in what you want to
find click enter and then troll through
a bunch of websites click onto the pages
and try and get the information you need
when you do a certain search for some
results they're going to give an instant
generative AI result with zero click
content giving you those answers
straight away without having to click
into any webpage Pages along with a few
supporting articles which is really
going to change the way Google search
results look for certain queries now if
you're watching on video there's a few
examples here with the zero click
content so we've got what is Google bard
straight away generative AI gives the
results with a summary but there's also
interestingly underneath a few buttons
for things like ask a follow-up how is
bar different from Google search why do
they call it bad and on the right of it
you've got three supporting articles so
there is still a chance it looks like to
rank in the generative AI top section if
you follow eeat showing experience
expertise Authority and trust and the
content you put out you've got a chance
to rank with those supporting articles
then underneath the generative AI
section you've got a classic search
results there and if you do want to
check out the AI experience on Google
you can apply on Google labs
I know what you're thinking Sam is this
gonna be the death of SEO is organic
search Gonna Die In Flames is organic
traffic to drive leads and revenue for
my business no longer viable well
certainly not from what I've seen so far
from a B2B perspective like we focus on
on this show it looks like generative Ai
and sge is going to impact most top of
the funnel more informational based
searches so you're Classic how to do
something best way to do something what
is X what is why and similar so there's
real informational based queries right
at the top of the sales funnel whereas
or middle of the funnel where prospects
are perhaps comparing vendors or looking
for Alternatives halfway through their
search or right at the bottom of the
sales funnel where a prospect is
directly looking for your service or
your offer from what I've seen it looks
like generative AI isn't going to impact
those quite so much so SEO is certainly
going to be impactful from B2B
standpoint for those juicy search
queries to drive leads in Revenue
so to give you some real examples on
potential keywords search queries that
might work well here in the middle of
the funnel you might want to look at
Alternatives so brand name Alternatives
or competitor one versus competitor two
because this prospect's already got some
companies some vendors in mind and they
want to look at the pros and cons of
each so those Search terms might be
relevant especially in the SAS and Tech
space or right at the bottom of the
funnel where prospects ready to speak to
a sales rep today it might be something
like B2B SEO company or best SAS web
design company or best B2B web design
company or more SAS based it might be
something like best proposal tool for
sales teams best CRM for sales teams
those kind of Niche specific search
queries where you can see the prospect
has intent for a certain offer and
Industry and then using a bunch of tools
software and doing customer research to
know your prospects actually search for
when they have intent to buy your
offering once you've nailed down those
keywords building out Best in Class
relevant pages so when the prospect
visits that relevant page for the offer
they can see the problem they fix how
you fix it the benefits you bring to the
table your unique value proposition
social proof examples of work results
testimonials client review videos all
that good stuff you're dressed up some
pain points you address that question
you serve up a best-in-class page to
really build trust or authority with
them and rank well on Google and also
doing technical SEO things like having a
great website that works well on mobile
and PC having a solid nice and quick
page load speed nailing your metadata
page titles heading tags image alt tags
and all those foundational technical SEO
points to build a well-rounded SEO
strategy and then of course moving on to
backlinks if they are competitive terms
that you need more authority to rank for
and then once you've nailed those mid
funnel and bottom of the funnel search
queries and you feel like you've got a
solid approach for SEO targeting those
main Search terms around all the offers
that you want to drive high intent
prospects to your site for then you can
start working your way up that funnel
and going for more informational based
searches to try and rank in the genitive
AI panel and get those supporting
articles ranking up there there you have
it I hope you
hope you're so useful
useful with rating or review on your
podcast channel is much appreciated or
if you're on YouTube subscribe goes a
long way and with that I'll catch you on
the next one cheers